you know when smartphones first appeared
they were really bulky and expensive
these early phones consumed lots of
power so they needed really big
batteries to run
plus electronics components were also
pretty large in those days
besides their brick-like bodies they
also had long
external antennas to reach the cell
network but
as time passed electronic parts became
smaller
and battery capacity increased
enormously internal antennas appeared
and phones became thin and light as the
overall technology improved
a three and a half inch screen seemed
okay to most people who
and we thought it would stay that size
forever but nowadays
it's hard to find a smartphone that has
a screen smaller than five and a half
inches modern smartphones just keep
getting bigger
so why are we now using smartphones that
resemble tablets
if we already know the ways to make them
smaller
well one reason is the camera today
smartphones are able to film
professional looking movies
thanks to their high resolution cameras
to get this picture quality
you need bigger sensors the number of
cameras in a device
also affects the size of the smartphone
because multiple cameras require more
powerful processors
and consume more energy on the subject
of processors
modern smartphones are over a million
times more powerful
than the guidance computers used to send
astronauts to the moon in 1969
processors create a lot of heat when
they work since a cooling fan won't fit
inside a smartphone
manufacturers make their devices bigger
this helps to get rid of the heat faster
in
powerful modern phones the heat problem
is also
one of the reasons why metal is often
used instead of plastic
to make those smartphones
[Music]
high resolution videos games virtual
reality
and many other features of today's
smartphones need a fast internet
connection
to achieve this manufacturers add more
powerful antennas to their phones
which also makes them bigger
now you might think that your smartphone
adds a lot to your electricity bill
because you have to charge it every
night but relax
your smartphone actually consumes a
small amount of power
it costs under a dollar a year to charge
your phone every day
your smartphone has a hidden fm radio
inside it
but it's switched off when you buy it
manufacturers don't activate smartphone
radios
because demand for this feature is too
low but you can
unlock the fm tuner all by yourself
all you need is a special app and a pair
of wired headphones to service the
antenna
cool there's a secret way to
increase the lifespan of your smartphone
battery just avoid
fully discharging or charging your
device you should connect your phone
when you had
thirty to forty percent power and unplug
it at about eighty to ninety percent
don't go all the way to one hundred this
is better for the battery
the first man in history to make a phone
call using a cell phone
was martin cooper a motorola engineer
in 1973 he presented the device at a
press conference in new york
to prove to the public that it really
worked cooper made a call
there and then he had a good sense of
humor so he called one of his biggest
rivals engineer joel ingle of atnt
the first words ever spoken using a cell
phone were
joel this is marty i'm calling you from
a cell phone
a real handheld portable cell phone nina
nina niner
no actually i just added that
do you get stressed without your phone
or when you've run out of battery
you might have nomophobia which means no
mobile phone phobia people with
nomophobia are afraid of going anywhere
without their cell phones
don't worry there's treatment for that
modern phones can cost quite a lot
sometimes even more than a laptop
but this phone is unbelievably expensive
with the price of more than 40 million
dollars the falcon supernova iphone
comes with a case made of gold and a
diamond on its back
does the name bluetooth sound strange to
you the name comes from the danish and
norwegian king
harold blotton wrongly translated into
english as
harold bluetooth and no he didn't have
blue teeth
he was known for his success in unifying
several nordic tribes under his rule
the inventor thought it was a good name
for a technology that unifies
different gadgets
now there's a cell phone actually
orbiting the earth
several years ago some british
researchers decided to test phone
technology
against the harsh conditions of outer
space they launched a google nexus phone
on a rocket
and it's still out there somewhere
every smartphone today is equipped with
a selfie camera
but what if you want to take a selfie
with a whole group of friends
and your hands just aren't long enough
to fit everyone into the picture
don't worry if you still have wired
headphones
you can snap a photo simply by pressing
the volume button
the cameras on our smartphones don't
just film and take photos in visible
light
they're actually so sensitive that they
can see infrared
you can try this at home grab your tv
remote point the camera at it and press
any button
your eyes won't see anything but your
phone screen will reveal a blinking
light
we all know that smartphones can read qr
codes
but they can also read barcodes with a
special app
so if you're at the store and can't find
the price on something
try your smartphone
use this trick if you want to turn your
smartphone into a microscope
if you attach the lens from a laser
pointer to the camera of your phone
you'll be able to see images that are
magnified 100 times
you can also record them to get high
resolution pictures
show that there are around 17 000
bacteria on our phone
that's 10 times more than on most toilet
seats
so think twice before you use it at the
dinner table
ninety percent of all phones in japan
are waterproof
japanese users even take their gadgets
into the shower
the first waterproof phone was released
in 2005
and since then more manufacturers have
adapted their devices to suit this
unusual habit
in china more people now use the
internet through their cell phones or
tablets
than through pcs because smartphones are
usually cheaper
and can perform the same task as a
computer
it's often more practical to use a
mobile device
there are so many useful tips out there
today that make our lives easier
about half of all of our time on digital
media
is spent using them but studies show
that we very rarely try out new apps
the majority of users in the us down
zero apps per month
the gps service on your phone doesn't
need an internet connection
or a data plan to operate the system is
made up of 24
satellites orbiting the earth every 12
hours our phones can receive a gps
signal at almost any point on the planet
for
free
the first person to predict the use of
cell phones was the inventor and
engineer
nikola tesla way back in 1909
in a column in the new york times he
wrote that people would one day
carry an inexpensive instrument to hear
and speak from anywhere on
sea and land
there's more gold inside a ton of cell
phones than in a ton of gold ore
so recycling old foams doesn't just help
the environment
it can also make us rich hey all good
stuff